                          EIL Linux Client Agent
                        Technical Design Document
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
1) Overview
    1.a) Project History
    1.b) Linux Client Agent Re-Write Requirements
2) Linux Client Agent
    2.a) Steward
    2.b) Dispatcher
        2.b.1) Client helper tools
3) Documentation

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1) Overview

1.a) Project History

    The original stated goal of the EIL Linux Client Agent project was to port
the existing C# Windows client to Linux/Mono (circa October 2010). However, due
to difficulties with the existing C# Windows client code (dependencies upon
Windows binary DLLs, dependencies upon .NET API calls not fully implemented in
current versions of Mono, and hard project requirements on platforms that did
not natively provide Mono support), this was scrapped in lieu of a more native
Linux solution.

    Recommendations were made (and initial prototyping was done) to create the
native Linux Client Agent in Python (which was present on all desired Linux
target platforms), however Python was ultimately rejected because of
maintainability concerns due to there being no permanent staff member with
Python experience.

1.b) Linux Client Agent Re-Write Requirements

    It was determined that the Linux Client Agent needed to be re-written in a
more native Linux way. The final design requirements were as follows:

        * It was to be written in C/C++ and BASH
            - These languages were determined to be the most maintainable
              given the staff language experience.

            - Perl was listed as an option, but was rejected due to it not
              being present on several target platforms (thus placing an undue
              burden on the imaging team).

            - Due to C/C++ requirement, gSOAP was chosen as the C/C++ SOAP
              library.

        * The resultant binary would be linked statically
            - The goal was to have the Linux Client Agent be something that
              could be "dropped in" to any Linux system with minimal fuss and
              no additional package dependency install.

            - This requirement meant that care had to be given when C++ was
              used in the code due to the fact that libstdc++ cannot currently
              be statically linked using gcc. (Primarily, this means gSOAP must
              be built without STL support, and no STL templates can be used.)

            - Additionally, care must be given in terms of redistribution as
              static linking *will* incur GPL/LGPL licensing issues. See
              LICENSE.

            - Due to some complications with the binary on pretty standard
              systems (SuSE) which *may* be due to ABI compatibility, we may
              wish to re-evaluate this priority.

        * Linux client agent should have custom, cross-distribution installer
            - The staff does not have experience creating and maintaining
              custom packages, so the larger Linux Client Agent package should
              be something that is distribution-agnostic (a single tar-file)
              with an installer. (E.g., something which mimics a more "Windows-
              like" installation.)

            - Suggestions of Zero Install, makeself.sh, etc. were made, however
              each were considered "too complicated" to learn by the existing
              team and ultimately the decision to create a custom "simple
              BASH script" for cross-platform installation was made.

            - It is my recommendation to return to this decision down the road
              if this cross-distro install script becomes too difficult to
              maintain.

        * Client agent should not use "complex build systems"
            - There was concern over the GNU autotools system, and how
              confusing it can be. The decision was made to not use the vast
              majority of autotools and to keep the build system as simple
              as possible.

            - Only GNU make and simple Makefiles along with basic BASH shell
              scripts are to be used in the project.
			  
		* Client agent should monitor network and restart interface if CCMS (or
		  other server) is unreachable.
			- Unsure how to handle the situation where we have multiple
			  interfaces.

        * Client agent must interact with current .NET-based CCMS
            - Current .NET-based CCMS runs WCF (Windows Communication
              Foundation) and utilizes WS-Addressing (version 5,
              http://www.w3.org/2005/08/addressing).

        * The client agent should conform to LFHS, LSB and LANANA conventions
          whenever possible (and whenever it doesn't conflict with previously
          stated goals).
            - This was not deemed as high a priority as previously stated
              goals. (Otherwise, obviously, we would be making RPMs.)

2) Linux Client Agent

    Because of the requirements detailed above, it was determined that the EIL
Linux Client Agent should be split into two distinct components. One component
will interact with CCMS, obtaining SOAP commands and relaying information,
while the other component will translate those commands into instructions
native to whatever Linux distribution the agent is currently running on.

    These two components are called the "Steward" and the "Dispatcher"
respectively.

2.a) Steward

    The steward is the C/C++ component of the agent which utilizes gSOAP and
interacts with CCMS. It runs as a daemon.

    The steward's job is to periodically report in with CCMS and check for any
queued commands. If a command exists, it will hand that command over to the
dispatcher.

    The Steward intercepts the following standard Linux signals:

        * SIGHUP - Changes the state of the steward to 'shutdown'. In this
           state, the steward will attempt to shut itself down cleanly and
           correctly.

        * SIGINT - Changes the state of the steward to 'shutdown'. This is
           the same effect as sending 'SIGHUP' to the steward.

        * SIGTERM - Changes the state of the steward to 'terminate'. This
           tells the steward to terminate anything it is doing at the moment
           and to stop execution as soon as possible. This should only be used
           in extreme circumstances as it may leave elements of the steward in
           an undefined state (for example, the log might not be flushed, any
           soap interactions may not be properly closed, etc.)

2.b) Dispatcher

    The dispatcher is the BASH component of the agent which handles the
distribution-dependent functionality of the client agent. It is a wrapper
around a suite of scripts which execute various commands for the Steward.

    *** FIXME DETAILS ***

2.b.1) Client helper tools

    In addition to command handling, the Dispatcher also provides helper tools
and scripts for the rest of the client agent suite. This includes the
following:
        * clientagent-helper.sh
            - Helper script which provides glue between Steward and
              Dispatcher.

        * install_tool.sh
            - Helper install script (satisfies the "distribution-agnostic"
              installation need).

        * rebuild.sh
            - Script used to rebuild the gSOAP bindings (should only be used
              when the CCMS details change, such as IP address or generative
              XML).

        * dispatcher/tests/
            - Unit testing framework for the client agent (requires shunit2,
              http://code.google.com/p/shunit2/).

        * *** FIXME UPGRADE ***

        *** FIXME MORE DETAILS ***

3) Documentation

    The EIL Linux Client Agent contains a number of documents to help in
extending and maintenance. They can be found in the source repository, or in
the doc/ install directory (generally /opt/intel/eil/clientagent/doc) after
installation. Most of this documentation is self-explanatory, but let's
briefly cover some of the highlights.

        * README, LICENSE, INSTALL, etc.
            - The file you read now, as well as the other all caps
              documentation files are very loosely based upon the well-
              established "Gnits Standards"
              (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gnits_Standards). This is in
              keeping with other native Linux/Unix projects.

        * HTML Library Documentation
            - Each C/C++ library included in the Steward source tree has full
              API documentation generated from comments in the source code.
              This is done using the Doxygen tool (http://www.doxygen.org/).

            - Rebuilding the API documentation is fairly simple, though care
              must be giving to first purge the existing documentation from the
              source repository and then re-add the documentation once it has
              been regenerated (I am not sure this was the best procedural
              decision in retrospect, but it is the one that has stuck). Thus,
              the general process for rebuilding the documentation in a given
              library is as follows:
                    $ cd lib_something/
                    $ hg rm html/
                    ...watch the existing documentation purge...
                    $ hg commit -m "purge docs for rebuild"
                    $ doxygen Doxyfile
                    $ hg add html/
                    $ hg commit -m "add rebuilt docs"
