           Specific deployment instructions as of March 2011
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following instructions are for deployment of the Linux client agent as of
March 2011. If the layout or configuration of the systems change, this document
might become invalid and may need updating.

NOTE #1: This document includes VERY specific instructions for current deployment
practices. For a more generalized look at the install process, please refer to
the INSTALL file at the top level of the repository.

NOTE #2: You want to make sure that the client agent is building and running
properly *before* you deploy it as existing clients will automatically upgrade
themselves once it has been deployed to either of the following locations.
When in doubt, run the unit tests.

------------------------------
Staging/Development Deployment
------------------------------

    Deployment of the staging release causes the Linux client agent to use the
following servers:

        For CCMS:               172.16.3.12
        For Client Update:      10.4.0.26

1) CONFIGURE THE BUILD SYSTEM

    In the global makefile, 'Globals.mk', set CCMS_SERVER_DEF to
"CCMS_DEV_SERVER":

        CCMS_SERVER_DEF=-D 'CCMS_DEV_SERVER'

this will tell the steward to build with the correct IP address definition.

2) CONFIGURE THE BOOTSTRAPPER

    In the clientagent-bootstrap.sh file (found in dispatcher/tools), set the
IS_STAGING and IS_DEV variables to 'yes'. This is done by simply uncommenting
them and commenting out the alternatives thusly:


        # Uncomment whichever of the following is correct for this install
        IS_STAGING=yes
        #IS_RELEASE=yes

        # Uncomment the following to determine whether we're using development or
        # production servers
        #IS_PRO=yes
        IS_DEV=yes

3) CLEAN THE BUILD ENVIRONMENT

    This step is only required if your build environment has not previously
been cleaned, but it is generally a good idea to do it anyway.

    As root, issue the following command in the top level directory of the
linux-clientagent

        # ./install_tool.sh --clean

4) BUILD/DEPLOY TO UBUNTUDEV

    The client update server for staging (10.4.0.26) is UbuntuDev. You can
build and deploy the package for the client agent in one step (see INSTALL for
more information on this process).

    As root, issue the following command:

        # ./install_tool.sh --makerepo 10.4.0.26:/home/pub/web/EILLinuxAgent/latest/.

5) BOOTSTRAP THE AGENT (INSTALL IT MANUALLY)

    This part is only if you want to actually install the agent on a specific
machine (otherwise, existing systems set to get their updates from the staging
server will automatically obtain this newly deployed version during their next
update cycle).

    On the system 