      Integration of full-desktop forwarding over X11 to a Windows client
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
1) Overview
    1.a) Basic concept
2) Configuration
    2.a) Linux server
    2.b) Windows client
3) SSH and start remote desktop

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1) Overview

    The purpose of this document is to give a general introduction to the
concepts behind X11 forwarding through SSH as well as integrating this with a
Windows environment using Cygwin.

    While commands will be presented, everything will be shown to set forwarded
X11 connections up manually. It is left up to the reader to automate these
tasks if that is desired.

1.a) Basic concept

    Very basically, our intent is to use the standard X11 forwarding allowed
over SSH in conjunction with the Xephyr extension X server (think of it as an
embeddable X server, http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/Xephyr) to
provide a local X server for a remote desktop.

    The "catch" here is we want the local X server to be running on a Windows
machine (so we can then re-transmit ths X connection over RDP, for example).

    By doing this, we should be able to take better advantage of the network-
efficient X11 protocols and yet get a "full-desktop Linux experience" without
the latency we might otherwise get over a comparable Java-based remote
solution.

2) Configuration

2.a) Linux server

    The Linux server needs to have a working X.org install. If it is a standard
destkop-based distribution (such as Ubuntu, RHEL, or SuSE) then this will not
be a problem. It will also need a working OpenSSH install. Setting these two
servers up generally is beyond the scope of this document and it is left up to
the reader to configure them properly.

    Once OpenSSH is set up and remote SSH connections are enabled, the SSH
daemon configuration file (generally /etc/ssh/sshd_config, though this can vary
from distribution to distribution, be sure to check your distribution's
documentation) must be editted and the following option be added or enabled:

            # Enable X11 forwarding
            X11Forwarding yes

    Restart the SSH daemon or cause it to reload the configuration file once
this change has been made.

2.b) Windows client

    On Windows, install the Cygwin suite (http://www.cygwin.com/) complete with
the full X.org packages. Here, you want to be sure to include whatever package
contains the "Xephyr" application. At the time of this writing, the package
that contains Xephyr is "xorg-server: X.Org X servers". Make sure that Cygwin
and the X.Org package are configured properly (again, this is beyond the scope
of this document and left up to the reader).

    Once X.Org is configured and running (rootless), start up an xterm or bash
prompt on Cygwin, and issue the following command:

            $ Xephyr :1 -ac -screen 800x600 &
            $ export DISPLAY=:1

replacing "800x600" with whatever resolution you want and ":1" with whatever
you desire your DISPLAY to be set as (see the X11 documentation if you do not
know what the DISPLAY environment variable means. If you are unsure, ":1" is a
reasonable default).

3) SSH and start remote desktop

    With the Linux server set up to allow X11 forwarding, and with the Cygwin/X
Xephyr extension running, you are now ready to make a connection and start a
remote desktop on the Linux server.

    First, SSH from the Windows client into the Linux server. From the Cygwin
xterm or bash prompt, issue the following command:

            $ ssh -X user@linuxserver

where "user" is the username you wish to log in as on the Linux server and
"linuxserver" is the Linux server itself (it could be the IP address, or a DNS-
resolvable domain name). Once you are connected to the remote Linux server, you
can start whatever desktop environment you wish to run. For example, if you
wanted to run Gnome, then you could run

            $ gnome-session
